# "RMS Open Letter" Responsive Statement

## Foreword

I am not speaking as the organization in this document. This is an organization
wide statement from the founder and acting director, Tyler J. Russell, as I feel
the need to express an in-part personal reaction to this situation.

## The Subject's Actions

As someone that has been contributing openly to software engineering for quite
some time now, and someone that has been highly interested in computer science
since a very young age, I will say this now as I always have.

**Discrimination has no place in science.**

Our role as scientists and engineers is to build a better future by making use
of our rationality, knowledge, information at hand, and tools. Discriminatory
action is the very antithesis of these principles. To act with prejudice or
discrimination towards any group without reason, and to act solely on one's
personal views without any respect for reality or the situation as a whole,
is a foolish notion and not one that belongs anywhere near any field of science,
let alone computer science.

We work with machines that process nothing other than pure information to
achieve things that could never have been imaginable prior to their invention.
If you cannot put your biases aside to see humans as humans and consider all
the available information, *you are not and never will be fit to work on or
with these machines, nor are you welcome in this field*.

As such, I, Tyler J. Russell, and my organization, Kludge Cyber Systems, will
be signing the [open letter], and I suggest to anyone that cares about freeing
our field of such harmful behaviour that they should too.

[open letter]: https://rms-open-letter.github.io
