# "Being Proud of Who We Are" - A Statement of Pride

Every year when June rolls around we see large corporations with little
involvement in real world affairs pounce on the opportunity to reap some extra
popularity by flaunting a facade of social awareness.

We'd like to take this opportunity to remind you of where this began: pride
month is not brought to you by middle-aged executives seeking to make some
extra money, pride month was brought to you by real queer people from all walks
of life throwing bricks and fighting for their lives to be accepted for who
they are in a society that wrote them off as sick and sinful for centuries. The
people that once oppressed the LGBTQ+ community are now using the flag and the
name to put on a front of Oscar-winning activism.

This year, that changes. Kludge Cyber Systems is striving to do better, because
we understand where this began and we'd like to carry it through to the end.
Our heart lies with everyone that has had to conceal their identity to feel
safe, everyone that has had to filter who they are to fit in, everyone that has
been scared to come out or still is, et cetera.

I, Tyler J. Russell, founder and lead engineer of Kludge Cyber Systems, am
bisexual myself. I will never know your pain because I have not faced many of
our community's common fears, but that's why I'm here to help.

## So, here's our plan

1. We're not changing our logo or selling rainbow-clad products in a meagre
   attempt to wear your flag for social justice points or our own monetary
   gain, because we believe in true activism and the power of people. *Yes,
   that is a dig at those megacorporations. No, we will not be apologising to
   them.*
2. We're allocating a charity appeal to help pay off higher education tuition
   fees for LGBTQ+ youth on our Open Collective to help the brilliant minds of
   this marginalized community access better opportunities, which can be found
   [here][oc].
3. I'll be taking emails from LGBTQ+ voices on `pride@kludge-cs.com` for further
   suggestions as to ways we can help out or personal appeals we can provide
   a larger platform for, so do not hesitate to send us an email.

[oc]: https://opencollective.com/pride

## Further Resources

- [The Trevor Project][trevor], "Saving Young LGBTQ Lives"
- [Stonewall], "Acceptance without Exception"

[trevor]: https://www.thetrevorproject.org/
[stonewall]: https://www.stonewall.org.uk/
